1:1 Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus through the will of God, according to the promise of the life which is in Christ Jesus, 
1:2 to Timothy, my beloved child: Grace, mercy, peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
1:3 I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers in a pure conscience, how unceasing is my remembrance of you in my supplications, night and day 
1:4 longing to see you, remembering your tears, that I may be filled with joy; 
1:5 having been reminded of the unfeigned faith that is in you; which dwelt first in your grandmother Lois, and your mother Eunice; and, I am persuaded, in you also. 
1:6 For which cause I put you in remembrance that you stir up the gift of God, which is in you through the laying on of my hands. 
1:7 For God did not give us a spirit of fearfulness; but of power and love and discipline. 
1:8 Therefore don't be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but suffer hardship with the good news according to the power of God; 
1:9 who saved us, and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before eternal times, 
1:10 but has now been manifested by the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death, and brought life and immortality to light through the good news, 
1:11 to which I was appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher. 
1:12 For which cause I suffer also these things: yet I am not ashamed; for I know him whom I have believed, and I am persuaded that he is able to guard that which I have committed to him against that day. 
1:13 Hold the pattern of sound words which you have heard from me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus. 
1:14 That good thing which was committed to [you] guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
1:15 This you know, that all who are in Asia turned away from me; of whom are Phygelus and Hermogenes. 
1:16 The Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus: for he often refreshed me, and wasn't ashamed of my chain; 
1:17 but, when he was in Rome, he sought me diligently, and found me 
1:18 (the Lord grant to him to find mercy of the Lord in that day); and in how many things he served at Ephesus, you know very well.
2:1 You therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 
2:2 And the things which you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same to faithful men, who will be able to teach others also. 
2:3 Suffer hardship with [me], as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 
2:4 No soldier on service entangles himself in the affairs of [this] life; that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier. 
2:5 And if also a man contends in the games, he is not crowned, except he has contended lawfully. 
2:6 The husbandman who labors must be the first to partake of the fruits. 
2:7 Consider what I say; for the Lord will give you understanding in all things. 
2:8 Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the seed of David, according to my good news: 
2:9 in which I suffer hardship to bonds, as a criminal; but the word of God is not bound. 
2:10 Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 
2:11 Faithful is the saying: For if we died with him, we will also live with him: 
2:12 if we endure, we will also reign with him: if we will deny him, he also will deny us: 
2:13 if we are faithless, he stays faithful; for he can't deny himself.
2:14 Of these things put them in remembrance, charging [them] in the sight of God, that they are not to strive about words, to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear. 
2:15 Be diligent to present yourself approved to God, an unashamed worker, correctly handling the word of truth. 
2:16 But shun profane babblings: for they will proceed further in ungodliness, 
2:17 and their word will eat as does a gangrene: of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus; 
2:18 men who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already, and overthrow the faith of some. 
2:19 Nevertheless the firm foundation of God stands, having this seal, The Lord knows those who are his: and, Let everyone who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness. 
2:20 Now in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honor, and some to shame. 
2:21 If a man therefore purges himself from these, he will be a vessel to honor, sanctified, meet for the master's use, prepared to every good work. 
2:22 But flee youthful lusts, and follow after righteousness, faith, love, peace, with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 
2:23 But foolish and ignorant questionings refuse, knowing that they gender strifes. 
2:24 And the Lord's slave must not strive, but be gentle toward all, apt to teach, forbearing, 
2:25 in meekness correcting those who oppose themselves; if perhaps God may give them repentance to the knowledge of the truth, 
2:26 and they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, having been taken captive by him to his will.
3:1 But know this, that in the last days grievous times will come. 
3:2 For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, haughty, railers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 
3:3 without natural affection, implacable, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, no lovers of good, 
3:4 traitors, headstrong, puffed up, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God; 
3:5 holding a form of godliness, but having denied its power: from these also turn away. 
3:6 For of these are those who creep into houses, and take captive silly women laden with sins, led away by diverse desires, 
3:7 ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 
3:8 And even as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also withstand the truth; men corrupted in mind, disapproved concerning the faith. 
3:9 But they will proceed no further: for their folly will be evident to all men, as theirs also came to be. 
3:10 But you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, long-suffering, love, patience, 
3:11 persecutions, sufferings; what things befell me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: and out of them all the Lord delivered me. 
3:12 Yes, and all who would live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. 
3:13 But evil men and impostors will wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. 
3:14 But you stay in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing of whom you have learned them; 
3:15 and that from a baby you have known the sacred writings which are able to make you wise to salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. 
3:16 All Scripture [is] inspired of God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction which is in righteousness: 
3:17 that the man of God may be complete, furnished completely to every good work.
4:1 I charge [you] in the sight of God, and of Christ Jesus, who will judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom: 
4:2 preach the word; be urgent in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and teaching. 
4:3 For the time will come when they will not endure the sound doctrine; but, having itching ears, will heap to themselves teachers after their own desires; 
4:4 and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn aside to fables. 
4:5 But be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your service. 
4:6 For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure has come. 
4:7 I have fought the good fight, I have finished the course, I have kept the faith: 
4:8 from now on there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me at that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing.
4:9 Be diligent to come shortly to me: 
4:10 for Demas forsook me, having loved this present age, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus to Dalmatia. 
4:11 Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you; for he is useful to me in [my] service. 
4:12 But Tychicus I sent to Ephesus. 
4:13 The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, bring when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. 
4:14 Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord will render to him according to his works: 
4:15 of whom you also beware; for he greatly withstood our words. 
4:16 At my first defense no one took my part, but all forsook me: may it not be laid to their account. 
4:17 But the Lord stood by me, and strengthened me; that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. 
4:18 The Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will save me to his heavenly kingdom: to whom [be] the glory forever and ever. Amen.
4:19 Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. 
4:20 Erastus stayed at Corinth: but Trophimus I left at Miletus sick. 
4:21 Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brothers.
4:22 The Lord be with your spirit. Grace be with you<sup><small>+</small></sup>.
