1:1 The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his slaves, [even] the things which must shortly come to pass: and he sent and signified [it] by his angel to his slave John; 
1:2 who bore witness of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, [even] of all things that he saw. 
1:3 Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it: for the time is at hand.
1:4 John to the seven churches that are in Asia: Grace to you<sup><small>+</small></sup> and peace, from Him Who Is and Who Was and Who Is To Come; and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne; 
1:5 and from Jesus Christ, [who is] the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and loosed us from our sins by his blood; 
1:6 and he made us [to be] a kingdom, [to be] priests to his God and Father; to him [be] the glory and the dominion forever and ever. Amen. 
1:7 Look, he comes with the clouds; and every eye will see him, and those who pierced him; and all the tribes of the earth will mourn over him. Even so, Amen.
1:8 I am the Alpha and the Omega, says Yahweh God, He Who Is and Who Was and Who Is To Come, the Almighty.
1:9 I John, your<sup><small>+</small></sup> brother and copartner with you<sup><small>+</small></sup> in the tribulation and kingdom and patience [which are] in Jesus, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. 
1:10 I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and I heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet 
1:11 saying, What you see, write in a book and send [it] to the seven churches: to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamum, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea. 
1:12 And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And having turned I saw seven golden lampstands; 
1:13 and among the lampstands one like a son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girded about at the breasts with a golden belt. 
1:14 And his head and his hair were white as white wool, [white] as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire; 
1:15 and his feet like burnished bronze, as if it had been refined in a furnace; and his voice as the voice of many waters. 
1:16 And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth proceeded a sharp two-edged sword: and his countenance was as the sun shines in his strength. 
1:17 And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as one dead. And he laid his right hand on me, saying, Don't be afraid; I am the first and the last, 
1:18 and the Living one; and I became dead, and look, I am alive forever and ever, and I have the keys of death and of Hades. 
1:19 Write therefore the things which you saw, and the things which are, and the things which will come to pass after these things; 
1:20 the mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven lampstands are seven churches.
2:1 To the angel of the church in Ephesus write: These things says he who holds the seven stars in his right hand, he who walks among the seven golden lampstands: 
2:2 I know your works, and your toil and patience, and that you can't bear evil men, and tried those who call themselves apostles, and they are not, and found them false; 
2:3 and you have patience and did bear for my name's sake, and have not grown weary. 
2:4 But I have [this] against you, that you left your first love. 
2:5 Remember therefore from where you have fallen, and repent and do the first works; or else I come to you, and will move your lampstand out of its place, except you repent. 
2:6 But this you have, that you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. 
2:7 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the Paradise of God.
2:8 And to the angel of the church in Smyrna write: These things says the first and the last, who became dead, and lived [again]: 
2:9 I know your tribulation, and your poverty (but you are rich), and the blasphemy of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but are a synagogue of Satan. 
2:10 Don't at all fear the things which you are about to suffer: look, the devil is about to cast some of you<sup><small>+</small></sup> into prison, that you<sup><small>+</small></sup> may be tried; and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> will have tribulation ten days. Be faithful to death, and I will give you the crown of life. 
2:11 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. He who overcomes will not be hurt of the second death.
2:12 And to the angel of the church in Pergamum write: These things says he who has the sharp two-edged sword: 
2:13 I know where you dwell, [even] where the throne of Satan is; and you hold fast my name, and did not deny my faith, even in the days of Antipas my witness, my faithful one, who was killed among you<sup><small>+</small></sup>, where Satan dwells. 
2:14 But I have a few things against you, because you have there some who hold the teaching of Balaam, who taught Balak to cast a stumbling block before the sons of Israel, to eat things sacrificed to idols, and to commit fornication. 
2:15 So you have also some who hold the teaching of the Nicolaitans in like manner. 
2:16 Repent therefore; or else I come to you quickly, and I will make war against them with the sword of my mouth. 
2:17 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To him who overcomes, to him I will give of the hidden manna, and I will give him a white stone, and on the stone a new name written, which no one knows but he who receives it.
2:18 And to the angel of the church in Thyatira write: These things says the Son of God, who has his eyes like a flame of fire, and his feet are like burnished bronze: 
2:19 I know your works, and your love and faith and service and patience, and that your last works are more than the first. 
2:20 But I have [this] against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess; and she teaches and seduces my slaves to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed to idols. 
2:21 And I gave her time that she should repent; and she does not want to repent of her fornication. 
2:22 Look, I cast her into a bed, and those who commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of her works. 
2:23 And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches will know that I am he who searches the minds and hearts: and I will give to each one of you<sup><small>+</small></sup> according to your<sup><small>+</small></sup> works. 
2:24 But to you<sup><small>+</small></sup> I say, to the rest who are in Thyatira, as many as do not have this teaching, who don't know the deep things of Satan, as they say; I cast on you<sup><small>+</small></sup> no other burden. 
2:25 Nevertheless that which you<sup><small>+</small></sup> have, hold fast until I come. 
2:26 And he who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I will give authority over the nations: 
2:27 and he will shepherd them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of the potter are broken to shivers; 
2:28 as I also have received of my Father: and I will give him the morning star. 
2:29 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
3:1 And to the angel of the church in Sardis write: These things says he who has the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars: I know your works, that you have a name that you live, and you are dead. 
3:2 Be watchful, and establish the things that remain, which were ready to die: for I have not found your works perfected before my God. 
3:3 Remember therefore how you have received and heard; and keep [it], and repent. If therefore you will not watch, I will come as a thief, and you will not know what hour I will come upon you. 
3:4 But you have a few names in Sardis who did not defile their garments: and they will walk with me in white; for they are worthy. 
3:5 He who overcomes will thus be arrayed in white garments; and I will in no way blot his name out of the Book of Life, and I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels. 
3:6 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
3:7 And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write: These things says he who is holy, he who is true, he who has the key of David, he who opens and none will shut, and who shuts and none opens: 
3:8 I know your works (look, I have set before you a door opened, which none can shut), that you have a little power, and kept my word, and did not deny my name. 
3:9 Look, I give of the synagogue of Satan, of those who say they are Jews, and they are not, but lie; look, I will make them to come and worship before your feet, and to know that I have loved you. 
3:10 Because you kept the word of my patience, I also will keep you from the hour of trial, that [hour] which is to come upon the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth. 
3:11 I come quickly: hold fast that which you have, that no one takes your crown. 
3:12 He who overcomes, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God, and he will go out from there no more: and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down out of heaven from my God, and my own new name. 
3:13 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
3:14 And to the angel of the church in Laodicea write: These things says the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God: 
3:15 I know your works, that you are neither cold nor hot: I would you were cold or hot. 
3:16 So because you are lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spew you out of my mouth. 
3:17 Because you say, I am wealthy, and have become rich, and have need of nothing; and don't know that you are the wretched one and miserable and poor and blind and naked: 
3:18 I counsel you to buy of me gold refined by fire, that you may become rich; and white garments, that you may clothe yourself, and [that] the shame of your nakedness not be made manifest; and eyesalve to anoint your eyes, that you may see. 
3:19 As many as I love, I reprove and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent. 
3:20 Look, I stand at the door and knock: if any man hears my voice and opens the door, then I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me. 
3:21 He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me in my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father in his throne. 
3:22 He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches.
4:1 After these things I looked, and saw a door opened in heaven, and the first voice that I heard, [a voice] as of a trumpet speaking with me, one saying, Come up here, and I will show you the things which must come to pass hereafter. 
4:2 Immediately I was in the Spirit: and look, there was a throne set in heaven, and one sitting on the throne; 
4:3 and he who sat [was] to look at like a jasper stone and a sardius: and [there was] a rainbow around the throne, like an emerald to look at. 
4:4 And around the throne [were] four and twenty thrones: and on the thrones [I saw] four and twenty elders sitting, arrayed in white garments; and on their heads crowns of gold. 
4:5 And out of the throne proceed lightnings and voices and thunders. And [there were] seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God; 
4:6 and before the throne, as it were a sea of glass like crystal; and among the throne, and around the throne, four living creatures full of eyes before and behind. 
4:7 And the first creature [was] like a lion, and the second creature like a calf, and the third creature had a face as of a man, and the fourth creature [was] like a flying eagle. 
4:8 And the four living creatures, having each one of them six wings, are full of eyes around and inside: and they have no rest day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, [is] Yahweh, the God of hosts, He Who Was and Who Is and Who Is To Come.
4:9 And when the living creatures will give glory and honor and thanks to him who sits on the throne, to him who lives forever and ever, 
4:10 the four and twenty elders will fall down before him who sits on the throne, and will worship him who lives forever and ever, and will cast their crowns before the throne, saying,
4:11 Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive the glory and the honor and the power: for you created all things, and because of your will they were, and were created.
5:1 And I saw in the right hand of him who sat on the throne a book written on the inside and on the back, sealed up with seven seals. 
5:2 And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a great voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose its seals? 
5:3 And no one in the heaven, or on the earth, or under the earth, was able to open the book, or to look on it. 
5:4 And I wept much, because no one was found worthy to open the book, or to look on it: 
5:5 and one of the elders says to me, Don't weep; look, the Lion that is of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has overcome to open the book and its seven seals. 
5:6 And I saw among the throne and of the four living creatures, and among the elders, a Lamb standing, as though it had been slain, having seven horns, and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God, sent forth into all the earth. 
5:7 And he came, and he takes [it] out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. 
5:8 And when he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, each having a harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. 
5:9 And they sing a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the book, and to open its seals: for you were slain, and purchased to God with your blood [men] of every tribe, and tongue, and people, and nation, 
5:10 and made them [to be] to our God a kingdom and priests; and they will reign on the earth.
5:11 And I saw, and I heard a voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders; and the number of them was tens of thousands of tens of thousands, and thousands of thousands; 
5:12 saying with a great voice, Worthy is the Lamb that has been slain to receive the power, and riches, and wisdom, and might, and honor, and glory, and blessing.
5:13 And every created thing which is in the heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and on the sea, and all things that are in them, I heard saying, To him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb, [be] the blessing, and the honor, and the glory, and the dominion, forever and ever.
5:14 And the four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshiped.
6:1 And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying as with a voice of thunder, Come. 
6:2 And I looked, and saw a white horse, and he who sat on it had a bow; and there was given to him a crown: and he came forth conquering, and to conquer.
6:3 And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come. 
6:4 And another [horse] came forth, a red horse: and to him who sat on it, it was given to take peace from the earth, and that they will slay one another: and there was given to him a great sword.
6:5 And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. And I looked, and saw a black horse; and he who sat on it had a balance in his hand. 
6:6 And I heard as it were a voice among the four living creatures saying, A measure of wheat for a denarius, and three measures of barley for a denarius; and don't hurt the oil and the wine.
6:7 And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, Come. 
6:8 And I looked, and saw a pale horse: and he who sat on him, his name was Death; and Hades followed with him. And there was given to them authority over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with famine, and with death, and by the wild beasts of the earth.
6:9 And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw underneath the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held: 
6:10 and they cried with a great voice, saying, How long, O Sovereign Yahweh, Holy and True, do you not judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth? 
6:11 And there was given to each of them a white robe; and it was said to them, that they should rest yet for a little time, until their fellow slaves also and their brothers, who should be killed even as they were, should have fulfilled [their course].
6:12 And I saw when he opened the sixth seal, and there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the whole moon became as blood; 
6:13 and the stars of the heaven fell to the earth, as a fig tree casts her unripe figs when she is shaken of a great wind. 
6:14 And the heaven was removed as a scroll when it is rolled up; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places. 
6:15 And the kings of the earth, and the princes, and the generals, and the rich, and the strong, and all--slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and in the rocks of the mountains; 
6:16 and they say to the mountains and to the rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb: 
6:17 for the great day of their wrath has come; and who is able to stand?
7:1 After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that no wind should blow on the earth, or on the sea, or on any tree. 
7:2 And I saw another angel ascend from the sunrising, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a great voice to the four angels to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea, 
7:3 saying, Do not hurt the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, until we will have sealed the slaves of our God on their foreheads. 
7:4 And I heard the number of those who were sealed, a hundred and forty and four thousand, sealed out of every tribe of the sons of Israel: 
7:5 Of the tribe of Judah [were] sealed twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Reuben twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Gad twelve thousand; 
7:6 Of the tribe of Asher twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Naphtali twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Manasseh twelve thousand; 
7:7 Of the tribe of Simeon twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Levi twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Issachar twelve thousand; 
7:8 Of the tribe of Zebulun twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Joseph twelve thousand; Of the tribe of Benjamin [were] sealed twelve thousand.
7:9 After these things I looked, and saw a great multitude, which no man could number, out of every nation and of [all] tribes and peoples and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, arrayed in white robes, and palms in their hands; 
7:10 and they cry with a great voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb.
7:11 And all the angels were standing around the throne, and [about] the elders and the four living creatures; and they fell before the throne on their faces, and worshiped God, 
7:12 saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honor, and power, and might, [be] to our God forever and ever. Amen.
7:13 And one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are arrayed in the white robes, who are they, and where did they come from? 
7:14 And I say to him, My lord, you know. And he said to me, These are those who come out of the great tribulation, and they washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. 
7:15 Therefore they are before the throne of God; and they serve him day and night in his temple: and he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. 
7:16 They will hunger no more, neither thirst anymore; neither will the sun strike on them, nor any heat: 
7:17 for the Lamb that is in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and will guide them to fountains of waters of life: and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes.
8:1 And when he opened the seventh seal, there followed a silence in heaven about the space of half an hour. 
8:2 And I saw the seven angels who stand before God; and there were given to them seven trumpets.
8:3 And another angel came and was standing over the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given to him much incense, that he should add it to the prayers of all the saints on the golden altar which was before the throne. 
8:4 And the smoke of the incense, with the prayers of the saints, went up before God out of the angel's hand. 
8:5 And the angel takes the censer; and he filled it with the fire of the altar, and cast it on the earth: and there followed thunders, and voices, and lightnings, and an earthquake.
8:6 And the seven angels who had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.
8:7 And the first sounded, and there followed hail and fire, mingled with blood, and they were cast on the earth: and the third part of the earth was burned up, and the third part of the trees was burned up, and all green grass was burned up.
8:8 And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood; 
8:9 and there died the third part of the creatures having souls in the sea; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.
8:10 And the third angel sounded, and there fell from heaven a great star, burning as a torch, and it fell on the third part of the rivers, and on the fountains of the waters; 
8:11 and the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.
8:12 And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was struck, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; that the third part of them should be darkened, and the day should not shine for the third part of it, and the night in like manner.
8:13 And I saw, and I heard an eagle, flying in mid heaven, saying with a great voice, Woe, woe, woe, for those who dwell on the earth, by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, who are yet to sound.
9:1 And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star from heaven fallen to the earth: and there was given to him the key of the pit of the abyss. 
9:2 And he opened the pit of the abyss; and there went up a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit. 
9:3 And out of the smoke came forth locusts on the earth; and power was given them, as the scorpions of the earth have power. 
9:4 And it was said to them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree, but only such men as do not have the seal of God on their foreheads. 
9:5 And it was given them that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when it strikes a man. 
9:6 And in those days men will seek death, and will in no way find it; and they will desire to die, and death flees from them. 
9:7 And the likenesses of the locusts were like horses prepared for war; and on their heads as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as men's faces. 
9:8 And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as [the teeth] of lions. 
9:9 And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots, of many horses rushing to war. 
9:10 And they have tails like scorpions, and stings; and in their tails is their power to hurt men five months. 
9:11 They have over them as king the angel of the abyss: his name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in the Greek [tongue] he has the name Apollyon.
9:12 The first Woe is past: look, there come yet two Woes hereafter.
9:13 And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God, 
9:14 one saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, Loose the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates. 
9:15 And the four angels were loosed, who had been prepared for the hour and day and month and year, that they should kill the third part of men. 
9:16 And the number of the armies of the horsemen was 200 million: I heard the number of them. 
9:17 And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and those who sat on them, having breastplates [as] of fire and of hyacinth and of brimstone: and the heads of the horses are as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths proceeds fire and smoke and brimstone. 
9:18 By these three plagues was the third part of men killed, by the fire and the smoke and the brimstone, which proceeded out of their mouths. 
9:19 For the power of the horses is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their tails are like serpents, and have heads; and with them they hurt. 
9:20 And even the rest of men, who were not killed with these plagues, did not repent of the works of their hands, that they should not worship demons, and the idols of gold, and of silver, and of bronze, and of stone, and of wood; which can neither see, nor hear, nor walk: 
9:21 and they did not repent of their murders, nor of their witchcraft, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.
10:1 And I saw another strong angel coming down out of heaven, arrayed with a cloud; and the rainbow was on his head, and his face was as the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire; 
10:2 and he had in his hand a little book open: and he set his right foot on the sea, and his left on the earth; 
10:3 and he cried with a great voice, as a lion roars: and when he cried, the seven thunders uttered their voices. 
10:4 And when the seven thunders uttered [their voices], I was about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying, Seal up the things which the seven thunders uttered, and do not write them. 
10:5 And the angel who I saw standing on the sea and on the earth lifted up his right hand to heaven, 
10:6 and swore by him who lives forever and ever, who created the heaven and the things that are in it, and the earth and the things that are in it, and the sea and the things that are in it, that there will be delay no longer: 
10:7 but in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he is about to sound, then is finished the mystery of God, according to the good news which he declared to his slaves the prophets. 
10:8 And the voice which I heard from heaven, [I heard it] again speaking with me, and saying, Go, take the book which is open in the hand of the angel who stands on the sea and on the earth. 
10:9 And I went to the angel, saying to him that he should give me the little book. And he says to me, Take it, and eat it up; and it will make your belly bitter, but in your mouth it will be sweet as honey. 
10:10 And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and when I had eaten it, my belly was made bitter. 
10:11 And they say to me, You must prophesy again over many peoples and nations and tongues and kings.
11:1 And there was given me a reed like a rod: and one said, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and the barrier within it. 
11:2 And the court which is outside the temple leave out, and do not measure it; for it has been given to the nations: and they will tread the holy city under foot forty and two months. 
11:3 And I will give to my two witnesses, and they will prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth. 
11:4 These are the two olive trees and the two lampstands, who stand before the Lord of the earth. 
11:5 And if any man desires to hurt them, fire proceeds out of their mouth and devours their enemies; and if any man will desire to hurt them, in this manner must he be killed. 
11:6 These have the power to shut the heaven, that it not rain during the days of their prophecy: and they have power over the waters to turn them into blood, and to strike the earth with every plague, as often as they will desire. 
11:7 And when they will have finished their testimony, the beast that comes up out of the abyss will make war with them, and overcome them, and kill them. 
11:8 And their dead bodies [lie] in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also their Lord was crucified. 
11:9 And from among the peoples and tribes and tongues and nations do [men] look at their dead bodies three days and a half, and do not allow their dead bodies to be laid in a tomb. 
11:10 And those who dwell on the earth rejoice over them, and make merry; and they will send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented those who dwell on the earth. 
11:11 And after the three days and a half the breath of life from God entered into them, and they stood on their feet; and great fear fell on those who watched them. 
11:12 And they heard a great voice from heaven saying to them, Come up here. And they went up into heaven in the cloud; and their enemies watched them. 
11:13 And in that hour there was a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell; and there were killed in the earthquake seven thousand names of men: and the rest were frightened, and gave glory to the God of heaven.
11:14 The second Woe is past: look, the third Woe comes quickly.
11:15 And the seventh angel sounded; and there followed great voices in heaven, and they said, The kingdom of the world has become [the kingdom] of our Lord, and of his Christ: and he will reign forever and ever.
11:16 And the four and twenty elders, who sit before God on their thrones, fell on their faces and worshiped God, 
11:17 saying, We give you thanks, O Yahweh, the God of hosts, who are and who were; because you have taken your great power, and you have begun to reign. 
11:18 And the nations were angry, and your wrath came, and the time of the dead to be judged, and [the time] to give their reward to your slaves the prophets, and to the saints, and to those who fear your name, the small and the great; and to destroy those who destroy the earth.
11:19 And the temple of God that is in heaven was opened; and there was seen in his temple the ark of his covenant; and there followed lightnings, and voices, and thunders, and an earthquake, and great hail.
12:1 And a great sign was seen in heaven: a woman arrayed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and on her head a crown of twelve stars; 
12:2 and she was pregnant; and she cries out, travailing in birth, and in pain to be delivered. 
12:3 And there was seen another sign in heaven: and look, a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and on his heads seven diadems. 
12:4 And his tail draws the third part of the stars of heaven, and casts them to the earth: and the dragon stands before the woman who is about to be delivered, that when she is delivered he may devour her child. 
12:5 And she was delivered of a son, a man child, who is to shepherd all the nations with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up to God, and to his throne. 
12:6 And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she has a place prepared of God, that there they may nourish her a thousand two hundred and threescore days.
12:7 And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels [going forth] to war with the dragon; and the dragon warred and his angels; 
12:8 And they did not prevail, neither was their place found anymore in heaven. 
12:9 And the great dragon was cast down, the old serpent, he who is called the Devil and Satan, the deceiver of the whole world; he was cast down to the earth, and his angels were cast down with him. 
12:10 And I heard a great voice in heaven, saying, Now has come the salvation, and the power, and the kingdom of our God, and the authority of his Christ: for the accuser of our brothers is cast down, who accuses them before our God day and night. 
12:11 And they overcame him because of the blood of the Lamb, and because of the word of their testimony; and they did not love their soul even to death. 
12:12 Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> who dwell in them. Woe for the earth and for the sea: because the devil has gone down to you<sup><small>+</small></sup>, having great wrath, knowing that he has but a short time.
12:13 And when the dragon saw that he was cast down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who brought forth the man [child]. 
12:14 And there were given to the woman the two wings of the great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness to her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent. 
12:15 And the serpent cast out of his mouth after the woman water as a river, that he might cause her to be carried away by the stream. 
12:16 And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth and swallowed up the river which the dragon cast out of his mouth. 
12:17 And the dragon waxed angry with the woman, and went away to make war with the rest of her seed, those who keep the commandments of God, and hold the testimony of Jesus. [18] And he was standing on the sand of the sea.
13:1 And I saw a beast coming up out of the sea, having ten horns and seven heads, and on his horns ten diadems, and on his heads names of blasphemy. 
13:2 And the beast which I saw was like a leopard, and his feet were as [the feet] of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his throne, and great authority. 
13:3 And [I saw] one of his heads as though it had been struck to death; and his death-stroke was healed: and the whole earth wondered after the beast; 
13:4 and they worshiped the dragon, because he gave his authority to the beast; and they worshiped the beast, saying, Who is like the beast? And who is able to war with him? 
13:5 And there was given to him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and there was given to him authority to continue forty and two months. 
13:6 And he opened his mouth for blasphemies against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, [even] those who dwell in the heaven. 
13:7 And it was given to him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and there was given to him authority over every tribe and people and tongue and nation. 
13:8 And all who dwell on the earth will worship him, [everyone] whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the Book of Life of the Lamb that has been slain. 
13:9 If any man has an ear, let him hear. 
13:10 If any man [is] for captivity, into captivity he goes: if any man [is] to be killed with the sword, with the sword he will be killed. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.
13:11 And I saw another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spoke as a dragon. 
13:12 And he exercises all the authority of the first beast in his sight. And he makes the earth and those who dwell in it to worship the first beast, whose death-stroke was healed. 
13:13 And he does great signs, that he should even make fire to come down out of heaven on the earth in the sight of men. 
13:14 And he deceives those who dwell on the earth by reason of the signs which it was given him to do in the sight of the beast; saying to those who dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast who has the stroke of the sword and lived. 
13:15 And it was given to him to give spirit to the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as should not worship the image of the beast should be killed. 
13:16 And he causes all, the small and the great, and the rich and the poor, and the free and the slaves, that there be given them a mark on their right hand, or on their forehead; 
13:17 and that no man should be able to buy or to sell, except he who has the mark, [even] the name of the beast or the number of his name. 
13:18 Here is wisdom. He who has understanding, let him count the number of the beast; for it is the number of a man: and his number is Six hundred and sixty-six.
14:1 And I looked, and saw the Lamb standing on the mount Zion, and with him a hundred and forty and four thousand, having his name, and the name of his Father, written on their foreheads. 
14:2 And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and the voice which I heard [was] as [the voice] of harpers harping with their harps: 
14:3 and they sing as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures and the elders: and no man could learn the song except the hundred and forty and four thousand, [even] those who had been purchased out of the earth. 
14:4 These are those who were not defiled with women; for they are virgins. These [are] those who follow the Lamb wherever he may go. These were purchased from among men, [to be] the first fruits to God and to the Lamb. 
14:5 And in their mouth was found no lie: they are without blemish.
14:6 And I saw another angel flying in mid heaven, having eternal good news to proclaim to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation and tribe and tongue and people; 
14:7 and he says with a great voice, Fear God, and give him glory; for the hour of his judgment has come: and worship him who made the heaven and the earth and sea and fountains of waters.
14:8 And another, a second angel, followed, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, that has made all the nations to drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.
14:9 And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a great voice, If any man worships the beast and his image, and receives a mark on his forehead, or on his hand, 
14:10 he also will drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is mixed undiluted in the cup of his anger; and he will be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb: 
14:11 and the smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever; and they have no rest day and night, those who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name. 
14:12 Here is the patience of the saints, those who keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.
14:13 And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on: yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them.
14:14 And I looked, and saw a white cloud; and on the cloud [I saw] one sitting like a son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle. 
14:15 And another angel came out from the temple, crying with a great voice to him who sat on the cloud, Send forth your sickle, and reap: for the hour to reap has come; for the harvest of the earth is ripe. 
14:16 And he who sat on the cloud cast his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.
14:17 And another angel came out from the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle. 
14:18 And another angel came out from the altar, he who has power over fire; and he called with a great voice to him who had the sharp sickle, saying, Send forth your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe. 
14:19 And the angel cast his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vintage of the earth, and cast it into the wine press of the great wrath of God. 
14:20 And the wine press was trodden outside the city, and there came out blood from the wine press, even to the bridles of the horses, as far as 184 miles.
15:1 And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having seven plagues, [which are] the last, for in them is finished the wrath of God.
15:2 And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire; and those who come off victorious from the beast, and from his image, and from the number of his name, standing by the sea of glass, having harps of God. 
15:3 And they sing the song of Moses the slave of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are your works, Yahweh, the God of hosts; righteous and true are your ways, King of the nations. 
15:4 Who will not fear, O Lord, and glorify your name? For you only are holy; for all the nations will come and worship before you; for your righteous acts have been made manifest.
15:5 And after these things I saw, and the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened: 
15:6 and there came out from the temple the seven angels who had the seven plagues, arrayed with pure bright linen, and girded about their breasts with golden belts. 
15:7 And one of the four living creatures gave to the seven angels seven golden bowls full of the wrath of God, who lives forever and ever. 
15:8 And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and none was able to enter into the temple, until the seven plagues of the seven angels should be finished.
16:1 And I heard a great voice out of the temple, saying to the seven angels, Go<sup><small>+</small></sup>, and pour out the seven bowls of the wrath of God into the earth.
16:2 And the first went, and poured out his bowl into the earth; and it became a noisome and grievous sore on the men who had the mark of the beast, and who worshiped his image.
16:3 And the second poured out his bowl into the sea; and it became blood as of a dead man; and every living soul in the sea died.
16:4 And the third poured out his bowl into the rivers and the fountains of the waters; and it became blood. 
16:5 And I heard the angel of the waters saying, Righteous are you, the one who is and the one who was, the Holy One, because you judged these things: 
16:6 for they poured out the blood of saints and prophets, and blood you have given them to drink: they are worthy. 
16:7 And I heard the altar saying, Yes, O Yahweh, the God of hosts, true and righteous are your judgments.
16:8 And the fourth poured out his bowl on the sun; and it was given to it to scorch men with fire. 
16:9 And men were scorched with great heat: and they blasphemed the name of God who has the power over these plagues; and they did not repent to give him glory.
16:10 And the fifth poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast; and his kingdom was darkened; and they gnawed their tongues for pain, 
16:11 and they blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores; and they did not repent of their works.
16:12 And the sixth poured out his bowl on the great river, the Euphrates; and its water was dried up, that the way might be made ready for the kings who [come] from the sunrising. 
16:13 And I saw [coming] out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet, three unclean spirits, as it were frogs: 
16:14 for they are spirits of demons, working signs; which go forth to the kings of the whole world, to gather them together to the war of the great day of the God of hosts. 
16:15 Look, I come as a thief. Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see him shamefully exposed. 
16:16 And they gathered them together into the place which is called in Hebrew Har-magedon.
16:17 And the seventh poured out his bowl on the air; and there came forth a great voice out of the temple, from the throne, saying, It is done: 
16:18 and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunders; and there was a great earthquake, of such that had not been since man had been on the earth, so great an earthquake, so mighty. 
16:19 And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and Babylon the great was remembered in the sight of God, to give to her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath. 
16:20 And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found. 
16:21 And great hail, [every stone] about the weight of a talent, comes down out of heaven on men: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for its plague is exceedingly great.
17:1 And there came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, and spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will show you the judgment of the great prostitute that sits on many waters; 
17:2 with whom the kings of the earth committed fornication, and those who dwell in the earth were made drunk with the wine of her fornication. 
17:3 And he carried me away in the Spirit into a wilderness: and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns. 
17:4 And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stone and pearls, having in her hand a golden cup full of detestable things, even the unclean things of her fornication, 
17:5 and on her forehead a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF THE PROSTITUTES AND OF THE DETESTABLE THINGS OF THE EARTH. 
17:6 And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. And when I saw her, I wondered with a great wonder. 
17:7 And the angel said to me, Why did you wonder? I will tell you the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and the ten horns. 
17:8 The beast that you saw was, and is not; and is about to come up out of the abyss, and goes into perdition. And those who dwell on the earth will wonder, [they] whose name has not been written in the Book of Life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast, how that he was, and is not, and will come. 
17:9 Here is the mind that has wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sits: and they are seven kings; 
17:10 the five have fallen, the one is, the other is not yet come; and when he comes, he must stay a little while. 
17:11 And the beast that was, and is not, is himself also an eighth, and is of the seven; and he goes into perdition. 
17:12 And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings, who have received no kingdom as yet; but they receive authority as kings, with the beast, for one hour. 
17:13 These have one mind, and they give their power and authority to the beast. 
17:14 These will war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings; and they who are with him are called and chosen and faithful. 
17:15 And he says to me, The waters which you saw, where the prostitute sits, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues. 
17:16 And the ten horns which you saw, and the beast, these will hate the prostitute, and will make her desolate and naked, and will eat her flesh, and will burn her completely with fire. 
17:17 For God put in their hearts to do his mind, and to come to one mind, and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God should be accomplished. 
17:18 And the woman whom you saw is the great city, which reigns over the kings of the earth.
18:1 After these things I saw another angel coming down out of heaven, having great authority; and the earth was lightened with his glory. 
18:2 And he cried with a mighty voice, saying, Fallen, fallen is Babylon the great, and has become a dwelling place of demons, and a hold of every unclean spirit, and a hold of every unclean bird, and and a hold of every unclean and hateful beast. 
18:3 Because from the wine of the wrath of her fornication, all the nations have drank; and the kings of the earth committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth became rich by the power of her wantonness.
18:4 And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come forth, my people, out of her, that you<sup><small>+</small></sup> have no fellowship with her sins, and that you<sup><small>+</small></sup> do not receive of her plagues: 
18:5 for her sins have stuck even to heaven, and God has remembered her iniquities. 
18:6 Render to her even as she rendered, and double [to her] the double according to her works: in the cup which she mixed, mix to her double. 
18:7 However much she glorified herself, and waxed wanton, so much give her of torment and mourning: for she says in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and will in no way see mourning. 
18:8 Therefore in one day her plagues will come, death, and mourning, and famine; and she will be completely burned with fire; for strong is Yahweh, the God who judged her. 
18:9 And the kings of the earth, who committed fornication and lived wantonly with her, will weep and wail over her, when they look at the smoke of her burning, 
18:10 standing far off for the fear of her torment, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, Babylon, the strong city! For in one hour is your judgment come. 
18:11 And the merchants of the earth weep and mourn over her, for no man buys their merchandise anymore; 
18:12 merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stone, and pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet; and all thyine wood, and every vessel of ivory, and every vessel made of most precious wood, and of bronze, and iron, and marble; 
18:13 and cinnamon, and spice, and incense, and ointment, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and cattle, and sheep; and [merchandise] of horses and chariots and slaves--even souls of men. 
18:14 And the fruits which your soul desired are gone from you, and all things that were dainty and sumptuous have perished from you, and they will find them no more at all. 
18:15 The merchants of these things, who were made rich by her, will stand far off for the fear of her torment, weeping and mourning; 
18:16 saying, Woe, woe, the great city, she who was arrayed in fine linen and purple and scarlet, and decked with gold and precious stone and pearl! 
18:17 For in one hour such great wealth is made desolate. And every shipmaster, and everyone who sails anywhere, and mariners, and as many as gain their living by sea, stood far off, 
18:18 and cried out as they looked on the smoke of her burning, saying, What [city] is like the great city? 
18:19 And they cast dust on their heads, and cried out, weeping and mourning, saying, Woe, woe, the great city, in which all who had their ships in the sea were made rich by reason of her costliness! For in one hour is she made desolate. 
18:20 Rejoice over her, you heaven, and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> saints, and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> apostles, and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> prophets; for God has judged your<sup><small>+</small></sup> judgment on her.
18:21 And a strong angel took up a stone as it were a great millstone and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with a mighty fall will Babylon, the great city, be cast down, and will be found no more at all. 
18:22 And the voice of harpers and minstrels and flute-players and trumpeters will be heard no more at all in you; and no craftsman, of whatever craft, will be found anymore at all in you; and the voice of a mill will be heard no more at all in you; 
18:23 and the light of a lamp will shine no more at all in you; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride will be heard no more at all in you: for your merchants were the princes of the earth; for with your witchcraft were all the nations deceived. 
18:24 And in her was found the blood of prophets and of saints, and of all who have been slain on the earth.
19:1 After these things I heard as it were a great voice of a great multitude in heaven, saying, Hallelujah; Salvation, and glory, and power, belong to our God: 
19:2 for true and righteous are his judgments; for he has judged the great prostitute, her who corrupted the earth with her fornication, and he has avenged the blood of his slaves at her hand.
19:3 And a second time they say, Hallelujah. And her smoke goes up forever and ever. 
19:4 And the four and twenty elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshiped God who sits on the throne, saying, "Amen, Hallelujah."
19:5 And a voice came forth from the throne, saying, Give praise to our God, all you<sup><small>+</small></sup> his slaves, and you<sup><small>+</small></sup> who fear him, the small and the great.
19:6 And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunders, saying, Hallelujah: for Yahweh our God, the Almighty, has begun to reign. 
19:7 Let us rejoice and be exceedingly glad, and let us give the glory to him: for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his wife has made herself ready. 
19:8 And it was given to her that she should array herself in fine linen, bright [and] pure: for the fine linen is the righteous acts of the saints.
19:9 And he says to me, Write, Blessed are those who are invited to the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he says to me, These are true words of God. 
19:10 And I fell down before his feet to worship him. And he says to me, Don't do it: I am a fellow slave with you and with your brothers who hold the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.
19:11 And I saw the heaven opened; and look, a white horse, and he who sat on it called Faithful and True; and in righteousness he judges and makes war. 
19:12 And his eyes [are] as a flame of fire, and on his head [are] many diadems; and he has a name written which no one knows but he himself. 
19:13 And in the word of God his name is also called, He [who is] arrayed in a garment dipped in blood. 
19:14 And the armies which are in heaven followed him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white [and] pure. 
19:15 And out of his mouth proceeds a sharp sword, that with it he should strike the nations: and he will shepherd them with a rod of iron: and he treads the wine press of the fierceness of the wrath of the God of hosts. 
19:16 And he has on his garment and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.
19:17 And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in mid heaven, Come [and] be gathered together to the great supper of God; 
19:18 that you<sup><small>+</small></sup> may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of generals, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and slave, and small and great.
19:19 And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him who sat on the horse, and against his army. 
19:20 And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet who did the signs in his sight, with which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshiped his image: both of them were cast alive into the lake of fire that burns with brimstone: 
19:21 and the rest were killed with the sword of him who sat on the horse, [even the sword] which came forth out of his mouth: and all the birds were filled with their flesh.
20:1 And I saw an angel coming down out of heaven, having the key of the abyss and a great chain in his hand. 
20:2 And he laid hold on the dragon, the old serpent, which is the Devil and Satan, and bound him for a thousand years, 
20:3 and cast him into the abyss, and shut [it], and sealed [it] over him, that he should deceive the nations no more, until the thousand years should be finished: after this he must be loosed for a little time.
20:4 And I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them: and [I saw] the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus, and for the word of God, and such as did not worship the beast, neither his image, and did not receive the mark on their forehead and on their hand; and they lived, and reigned with Christ a thousand years. 
20:5 The rest of the dead did not live until the thousand years should be finished. This is the first resurrection. 
20:6 Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection: over these the second death has no power; but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him [for] the thousand years.
20:7 And when the thousand years are finished, Satan will be loosed out of his prison, 
20:8 and will come forth to deceive the nations which are in the four corners of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to the war: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea. 
20:9 And they went up over the width of the earth, and surrounded the camp of the saints, and the beloved city: and fire came down out of heaven, and devoured them. 
20:10 And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where are also the beast and the false prophet; and they will be tormented day and night forever and ever.
20:11 And I saw a great white throne, and him who sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them. 
20:12 And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne; and books were opened: and another book was opened, which is [the Book] of Life: and the dead were judged out of the things which were written in the books, according to their works. 
20:13 And the sea gave up the dead who were in it; and death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them: and they were judged every man according to their works. 
20:14 And death and Hades were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death, [even] the lake of fire. 
20:15 And if any was not found written in the Book of Life, he was cast into the lake of fire.
21:1 And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away; and the sea is no more. 
21:2 And I saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for her husband. 
21:3 And I heard a great voice out of the throne saying, Look, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his peoples, and God himself with them, he will be their God: 
21:4 and he will wipe away every tear from their eyes; and death will be no more; neither will there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain, anymore: because the first things are passed away. 
21:5 And he who sits on the throne said, Look, I make all things new. And he says, Write: for these words are faithful and true. 
21:6 And he said to me, They have come to pass. I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give to him who is thirsty of the fountain of the water of life freely. 
21:7 He who overcomes will inherit these things; and I will be his God, and he will be my son. 
21:8 But for the fearful, and unbelieving, and those who have become disgusting, and murderers, and fornicators, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, their part [will be] in the lake that burns with fire and brimstone; which is the second death.
21:9 And there came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls, who were laden with the seven last plagues; and he spoke with me, saying, Come here, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. 
21:10 And he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain great and high, and showed me the holy city Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, 
21:11 having the glory of God: her light was like a most precious stone, as it were a jasper stone, clear as crystal: 
21:12 having a wall great and high; having twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels; and names written on them, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the sons of Israel: 
21:13 on the east were three gates; and on the north three gates; and on the south three gates; and on the west three gates. 
21:14 And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and on them twelve names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb. 
21:15 And he who spoke with me had for a measure a golden reed to measure the city, and her gates, and her wall. 
21:16 And the city lies foursquare, and her length is also as great as the width: and he measured the city with the reed, 1,380 miles: her length and width and height are equal. 
21:17 And he measured her wall, a hundred and forty and four cubits, [according to] the measure of a man, that is, of an angel. 
21:18 And the building of her wall was jasper: and the city was pure gold, like pure glass. 
21:19 The foundations of the wall of the city were adorned with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, chalcedony; the fourth, emerald; 
21:20 the fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolite; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, topaz; the tenth, chrysoprase; the eleventh, jacinth; the twelfth, amethyst. 
21:21 And the twelve gates were twelve pearls; each one of the several gates was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass. 
21:22 And I saw no temple in her: for Yahweh, the God of hosts, and the Lamb, are her temple. 
21:23 And the city has no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine on her: for the glory of God lightened her, and her lamp [is] the Lamb. 
21:24 And the nations will walk amid her light: and the kings of the earth bring their glory into her. 
21:25 And her gates will in no way be shut by day (for there will be no night there): 
21:26 and they will bring the glory and the honor of the nations into her: 
21:27 and there will in no way enter into her anything common, or anyone who does disgusting things or lies: but only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. 
22:1 And he showed me a river of water of life, bright as crystal, that proceeds out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, 
22:2 in the midst of her street. And on this side of the river and on that was a tree of life that bears fruit twelve [times per year], every month yielding its fruit: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. 
22:3 And there will be no curse anymore: and the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in her: and his slaves will serve him; 
22:4 and they will see his face; and his name [will be] on their foreheads. 
22:5 And there will be no more night; and they need no light of lamp, neither light of sun; for Yahweh God will give them light: and they will reign forever and ever.
22:6 And he said to me, These words are faithful and true: and Yahweh, the God of the spirits of the prophets, sent his angel to show to his slaves the things which must shortly come to pass. 
22:7 And look, I come quickly. Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.
22:8 And I John am he who heard and saw these things. And when I heard and saw, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things. 
22:9 And he says to me, Don't do it: I am a fellow slave with you and with your brothers the prophets, and with those who keep the words of this book: worship God.
22:10 And he says to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book; for the time is at hand. 
22:11 He who is unrighteous, let him do unrighteousness still: and he who is filthy, let him be made filthy still: and he who is righteous, let him do righteousness still: and he who is holy, let him be made holy still. 
22:12 Look, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to render to each man according to as his work is. 
22:13 I am the Alpha and the Omega, the first and the last, the beginning and the end. 
22:14 Blessed are those who wash their robes, that they may have the right [to come] to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city. 
22:15 Outside are the homosexuals, and the sorcerers, and the fornicators, and the murderers, and the idolaters, and everyone who loves and makes a lie.
22:16 I Jesus have sent my angel to testify to you<sup><small>+</small></sup> these things for the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright, the morning star.
22:17 And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And he who hears, let him say, Come. And he who is thirsty, let him come: he who will, let him take the water of life freely.
22:18 I testify to every man who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man will add to them, God will add to him the plagues which are written in this book: 
22:19 and if any man will take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God will take away his part from the tree of life, and out of the holy city, which are written in this book.
22:20 He who testifies these things says, Yes: I come quickly. Amen: come, Lord Jesus.
22:21 The grace of the Lord Jesus be with all.
